---
layout: post
title: Nautical Gamin' - Part 2
tags: design, woodworking, raspberry pi
comments: true
published: false
description: In which Shawn sails the high seas
image: barcade_2.png
---

In the early morning fog, mid-summer of 1699, a large wooden ship floated alongside the eastern shore of Gardiners Island. It sat nestled into the shallows, anchor sunk deep into the mud below.  Sharply illuminated in the rising sun, the name "Adventure Prize" was chiseled upon the ship's hull, but the island's few residents were resting too soundly to take note.  Only one man overlooked the scene this early, standing on deck, singlehandedly lowering a small skiff down into the waves. As the boat splashed into the sea, the sailor quickly followed down the rope himself, grabbed the oars, and began rowing through the calm water to shore. Birds chittered awake along the tree-lined beach as he came aground, pulling the rowboat out of the tides.  With great effort he hoisted a large chest onto the dingy's edge, tilting the small vessel sideways from the box's weight and clattering a spade onto the rocky beach.  Cursing, William Kidd picked up the shovel before resuming his task.  Tucking a separate box under his arm and grabbing the chest to drag behind, he slowly made his way up across the sparsely wooded island.  Over the middle of the long rocky point and further down along the shore he trudged. After a few hundred meters of this, the beach suddenly fell off into a shallow ravine.  Kidd stopped, and with one final heave shoved the chest down the sandy slope and into the bottom of the trench. In only a few shovels of sand, it disappeared into the bottom of the ravine, invisible to any passerby. Captain Kidd walked back to his ship having buried his bargaining chip, over $30,000 of piratical plunder, in hopes that it would guarantee his freedom from execution.<span class="ref"><span class="refnum">[1]</span><span class="refbody small">It did not.</span>

This is the only proven case of a pirate burying treasure.  An unfortunate fact for sure, because the trope of buried booty is such a powerful icon of the greed and distrust amongst thieves. It's no wonder media has multiplied the use of treasure chests to their modern ubiquity.  No swashbuckling adventure film, nautical mini-golf course, or mermaid-filled Myrtle Beach seafood buffet would be complete without a wooden chest overflowing with gold.<span class="ref"><span class="refnum">[2]</span><span class="refbody">I'm starting to realize how much of my aesthetic preference comes from a childhood of seeking out unlimited food.</span>

With that historical anachronism in mind - the profile of my design came into quick focus.  Solidified alongside the textures and colors from Twenty Thousand Leagues that I talked about in Part 1, I landed on a sketch of warm wood, brass trim, and sharp quarter-circle drops on either end  to evoke that classic treasure chest shape.  <span class="ref"><span class="refnum">[3]</span><span class="refbody">Many of my design attempts tried to integrate a convexly curved top to each side to further heighten this, but ultimately the smoother flat tabletop won out..</span>

<hr/>

## When All You Have is a Router, Everything Needs a Bevel

Actually even in a garage full of tools, if a router is one of them I will still find myself giving everything a fancy edge.

Armed with only a disassembled monitor and raspberry pi to start out, I decided to start with routing 





In the late night fog of far too little sleep, early spring of 2020, a Chrome browser window sat on a sketchy Russian website.  Emblazoned across the site's header were unfamiliar Cyrillic characters, but Shawn did not let this deter him.  He had arrived at this port for one reason, and one reason only.  Splayed across the HTML before him was a smattering of buttons, all conspicuously labelled _"Download"_ or _"CLICK TO INSTALL"_, flashing in competition for his attention.  A perfectly evolved ecosystem of trickery.  Shawn evaluated the scene for a moment before espying a small grey link hovering inconspicuously near the page edge. It didn't flash or wiggle, and a feeling in his gut said this was the one.  With a decisive click, the transfer began.  Shawn held his breath as the payload transferred. In mere moments, _QIX.zip_ blinked into appearance on the monitor, and he exhaled in relief as First Mate Norton nodded approvingly.  Shawn ejected the thumb drive and spun around to view the brass-trimmed chest across the room.  A treasure trove of piratical plunder, laden with ROMs of all the golden arcade hits of the 1980's, sitting in a wooden chest.  With a hearty "Arr, Matey", he plugged in the USB to add Qix to the hoard.



<p style="text-align: center; font-size: 0.7em">* For the sake of pedantry, Kidd left <i>Adventure Prize</i> docked in the Caribbean and rode a smaller sloop up to New York to stash his treasure.  But the image of Kidd's iconic vessel anchored in the shallows is way more fun.  Thanks for trying to ruin a good story, save it for Jeopardy.</p>
